[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, let's go ahead and
create the test first.
So now inside of not inside of helpers but
inside of test.
We're gonna create a new file and
I think I call it search, no,
app.spec, yeah that's fine.
Call it app.spec.js.
>> Brian Holt: Js, thank you,
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So the reason why I call
it js and not jsx which is kind of
going against my rule that I
told you previously is you
don't have to configure Mocha to look for
jsx files.
Or you do have to configure it to look for
jsx files if you just call it js it
will just find it automatically.
I'm all about being lazy.
And the reason why I used .spec,
that's actually just really
force of habit for me.
I don't know if anyone's ever done
RSpec in Ruby or anything like that.
It looks for files called spec.
I like calling them spec because it's just
a very quick way to say, this is the test.
So when I'm using my file finder and
I'll just look for
specs, I can find all of my tests.
Works for me, but it doesn't
necessarily have to work for you.
Mocha doesn't care.
In some testing frameworks it
is important, in Mocha it's not.
>> Speaker 2: I always wondered why
we didn't just call them tests.
At.test.js.
We call them specs because of Ruby or
whatever.
>> Brian Holt: The only reason I keep
doing it is because I've already
always done it that way.
>> Speaker 2: Right, exactly.
>> Brian Holt: It's one of those things.
Okay, so instead of app spec js,
we're gonna do one of our famous comments,
because we don't want to fail lint, right.
There's things called
ES lint environments.
It's a bunch of basically globals
that ES lint knows to just ignore,
so if I say yes and Mocha just
knows this is Mocha testing file.
I'm just gonna add a bunch of white listed
testing type variables into your globals
list otherwise you have to do the global
it, global described, global bunch
of other stuff that Mocha includes, which
is fine if you prefer to do it this way.
But this is just really easy to remember
and now you know if it's future proof if
you tend to introduce more tests with
more keywords right so up to you.
Okay.
[COUGH] So
we're going to bring in here
we're going to bring in Chi.
>> Brian Holt: This is
our assertion library,
which we'll see in just
a sec how to use that.
And actually, we don't have to do that,
we can just do,
>> Brian Holt: expect,
cuz that's actually what
we want out of Chai.
We want this expect function.
That's going to allow us to basically
make assertions of how we want our code
to look.
>> Brian Holt: So the first thing
when you use here is describe, and
this first comment, for
those you who are not familiar with Mocha
is basically the the thing that
you're going to be testing, right.
So in this particular case
we've been testing our search
component but here you can put anything.
It can be like,
if you don't like that you can say
this is my search component, right.
This is just a future
footnote to yourself, so
put whatever is descriptive in there for
you.
This is descriptive for
me to let me know I'm testing
a reactor component called search.
Okay and then you get a callback function.
Okay and then in here you gonna say it,
should pass,
then give that a callback function.
So basically, here you're describing
all of your different tests, right.
So, here's all the tests that I'm
gonna be running against search, so
I can have different levels of it, right.
So, I can have it, I can have another it,
another it, and another it, right,
I'm not gonna do that right now,
we're just gonna do one test but,
you can also do nested describes,
this is not meant to be a Mocha test or
a Mocha class but just giving you some
context if that's interesting to you.
Okay, and then now we're just gonna
write the most basic test in the world
we're just gonna say expect,
one plus one, triple equal to two, right.
We expect that to be true.
So you're gonna say I
expect this to be true.
The nice thing about this is it tries to
be as English like as possible right, so
I'm expecting everything in
here to evaluate to be true.
If you're interested there's a couple
styles of using Chai, there's, I can't
remember what they're called, one of
them is expect one of them is assert and
one of them is should.
Is it should?
It might be should.
Yeah, okay, should.
>> Brian Holt: So you're welcome to use
the one that most fits the way you're
thinking about your tests.
To be totally honest my is called power
assert which is not in Chai at all.
Go check it out and
I don't wanna talk about cuz it's actually
kind of complicated but it's super cool.
>> Brian Holt: Okay end of tangent.
Okay, so let's go and run this test right.
Like we have one test and
we expect our test to pass.
So let's go up here and run,
go to your command line and
we're gonna say Mocha dash dash require.
First of all if you don't have
Mocha do mpm install -g mocha if
you haven't already done that.
>> Brian Holt: So the cool thing about
Mocha is if you called the directory test
it knows to look in the test directory and
find all the js files and
just run them for you,
which is really nice.
I'm gonna put that up top.
So I'm gonna say mocha --require
test/helpers/setup.js.
So it's going to basically
run that file first and
that's gonna run all of your other files,
right?
So we're gonna create our
browser like environment.
In this particular case,
it doesn't matter since we're not actually
testing the browser yet, but go ahead and
give that a shot.
Mocha not found, I need to install it.
>> Brian Holt: Hopefully
that's pretty fast.
>> Brian Holt: So actually you don't have
to do the dash dash require right now,
you can probably just type Mocha and
it should work right now.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, clear.
Just run Mocha.
And something's up.
Yeah.
No you do have to run it
cuz I'm using ES6 stuff.
So I have to say mocha -- require sorry,
--require test/helpers, test/helpers.
If you're using the latest
node it probably would work.
Five seven, five nine,
is that what it would be on?
Something like that.
>> Speaker 3: A couple of
us have errors back here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Speaker 3: Babel poly fill,
can’t find module,
do you just need to install that?
>> Brian Holt: I think I forgot to
put that on package requirements.
So do mpm install --save--dev,
here let me show you.
Mpm install --save--dev like that,
babel- poly fill.
I missed a couple of these requirements,
so my bad.
[LAUGH] sorry.
In fact, I'm gonna do that myself.
If you want to know a neat shortcut
you can do dash capital D, and
that's save dev.
So mpm install,
which you can also just type as mpm i.
Then you can do -D babel-polyfill.
That's exactly the same thing.
>> Brian Holt: I don't know why I get so
hung up on using the shorthand.
[LAUGH] It, cuz it's so dumb right,
I'm typing like ten more characters right,
maybe I'm just burning like
one more calorie but whatever.
Precious calories.
Okay clear.
So, now try that after you
install the poly fill.
Plus working cool.
If you want to do something
kind of fun cuz we all
wanna do something fun,
I think it's dash R, so
just do dash R dash capital
R a dash capital R Nyan.
So cool right, this is like my
favorite tricks and Mocha and
you get a nice and noodle consul.
And so the more tests you get
the longer the rainbow gets behind it.
I think it's pretty cool.
[LAUGH]
The unfortunate part about it,
which is why I actually
don't use it more often,
is I actually like seeing all
the different tests that do pass.
I like seeing the check mark and if you
do the Nyan way, it doesn't show you
what tests are passing, it just shows you,
I have one passing, one failing.
Sorry, zero failing and zero pending.